welcome to the man of recaps it's house
of cards season four President Frank
Underwood is running for the Democratic
nomination against Heather Dunbar but
his wife Claire underwood is not
witnessed a huge fight last season and
she went home to Dallas to visit her
mother with whom she has a strained
relationship
Claire's absence on the campaign trail
becomes a big story though and she meets
with Frank they agreed to say that her
mom has cancer which is actually true
Claire didn't even know so they
reconciled but then they just end up
fighting again Claire meets with LeAnn
Harvey a skilled campaign manager about
her own political career her plan is to
run for Congress to replace this
retiring old black woman by having her
daughter wait a few years to run so she
makes a deal with the congresswoman but
at the State of the Union Frank
announces that her daughter's running
because she made a better deal with him
and Frank's like look Claire let's end
this fight we got to work together so
they go campaigning in Frank's home
state of South Carolina and Claire's
like yeah we're working together but she
secretly as LeAnn go and find the
picture of Frank's dad with a Klu Klux
Klan guy what frame he wasn't in the
Klan he had a good reason to be in that
photo but everyone's pretty pissed at
him anyway chief of staff Doug Stamper
confronts media guy Seth Grayson about
the leaks
he thinks it's him and while it's not he
did meet with the campaign manager for
Dunbar as you know to have a back-up
plan so he has been sending them some
stuff but Frank finds out this leak was
Claire and she's like that's right I
will destroy you if you don't do what I
want and what I want is to be vice
president
a first lady vice president that's crazy
but Claire is serious and she will
straight-up divorce him if he doesn't
make it happen which would basically end
his campaign Hey look it's Lucas Goodwin
he's a reporter that was investigating
Frank so Frank had him set up and
shipped off to jail now he gets his
cellmate to confess that he took the
fall for something mob guy which is what
they wanted to hear so he's out on
witness protection he's been working the
car wash in Ohio but one day he sees
Dunbar is going to be nearby so he blows
this guy in order to borrow his car and
sneaks into Dunbar's campaign and the
secret meeting tells her all the bad
stuff Frank did and she's like you still
don't have any proof so I can't get
involved and he is totally crushed so
next time Frank's out in the crowd he
tries to assassinate an old man Meechum
takes the bullets and he's dead
poor Meechum you were too good for this
world Frank is hit too and he survived
but he will die if he doesn't get a
liver transplant
unfortunately there's one guy ahead of
him on the list and Stanford's like are
you kidding me move the president up the
list which basically kills that other
guy and Doug feels bad so he donates a
bunch of the guys charity which makes
his hot wit overreach out and they meet
up and like she starts coming over and
cooking him dinner
I guess they're dating anyway long story
short print gets a liver and he's going
into surgery he's going to be okay in
the meantime though acting president is
Donald live who is in no way up to the
challenge they briefed him on an ongoing
operation with rush I see this version
billionaire tried a coup in there and so
he fled to the US for asylum and French
plan was to send him back like set him
up somewhere with some money to
antagonize Russia see the russian
president viktor petrov who was
basically Putin is already blaming
America for the coup
so he's cut oil production which is
causing gas shortages everywhere so
don't oblige has no idea what to do
proceed with the mission aboard it said
Claire's like hey are you looking for
someone to just tell you what to do
because that can be me and so she
convinces him to do her own plan which
is sending out a china and play Russia
and trying to off each other and when
Petra calls him to talk about it
Claire's the one who's typing everything
to say so she's basically president
right now Claire tracks down former
lobbyist Remington who is now retired in
Florida but she blackmails him with
photos of the affair between him and
congresswoman Jackie sharp said he'll go
find Raymond tusk
and they'll work on a US Russia Chinese
like oil drilling thing which she
presents at the g7 summit Petrov and
Claire have a secret meeting Secretary
of State Katherine Durant is not invited
which makes her unhappy Petrov is still
mad at Claire for shaming him on live TV
so he's like I'm not even going to
negotiate I'm just going to flirt with
you for a bit but she stands up to him
and gets real nasty which he actually
responds well to and they reach an
agreement
finally Frank's back on his feet he's
doing okay except for some more gray
hairs and he's like you know what Claire
my brush with death made me realize that
I really love you word team we need to
work together you want to be vice
president we'll make it happen
so the Underwood's are united once again
now look as good when being the shooter
is super awkward for Heather Dunbar
because their secret meeting was
literally that morning and that looks
pretty bad
when Doug finds out Seth's been working
with Dunbar he fires him but Seth knows
about the meeting with Goodwin so he
doubles down on supporting the
Underwood's and goes public with that
information so now they're investigating
Heather Dunbar does like hey thanks
that's for proving your loyalty but if
you ever betray us again I will
literally murder you he lets him go for
now though and Dunbar is just too honest
to lie about meeting with Goodwin and no
matter how she tries to explain it the
implication that she told him to
assassinate the president is just too
bad and her campaigns over so Frank is
locked down the Democratic nomination
but he still has to face off with the
Republican governor will Conway he and
his wife are young and hot and they've
got an awesome family and they are media
darlings and everyone loves them now
there's a new terrorist group called ICO
the mill
Terry wants to bomb them but Frank says
let's hold on for a while because Conway
is working with a search engine to get a
lot of good voter data and Leanne is
like we can use the psycho situation for
a domestic surveillance program I know a
data scientist who can use it all and
get even better voter data so that's
super illegal so they meet with him in
this abandoned warehouse and he's like
oh yeah you get me the data I'll win you
the election so he goes like shirtless
dancing while he's monitoring all
communication in the United States
meanwhile the FBI is checking in with
hammerschmidt who used to be a reporter
with Goodwin
this puts him in the mood to walk down
Zoe Barnes as old Street and ask around
the pizza shop they've never seen Frank
but they have seen Meacham who happens
to be on TV right now it's like wait are
you serious that's the first concrete
link of the affair between Zoe Barnes
and Underwood so hammerschmidt goes full
investigation mode he's checking all of
mediums old travel logs to see if
there's any discrepancies now it's the
quest to make Claire vice president
donald live is ready to step down and
since client Frank had been very
anti-gun since he got shot the Democrats
want someone who is pro-gun to be vice
president they set this guy up though by
having a reporter see him in the
anti-gun meeting and the NRA comes down
on him hard so he's out of the picture
Frank suggests an alternative his
longtime ally Secretary of State
Katherine Durant everyone's okay with
this and an even better idea and let's
have an open convention to get all the
media buzz it's all just for show
Cathy's supposed to win at the end and
France working with her to make sure
that happens but this one guy votes for
Claire underwood and it's played down as
a joke and he's working with Cathy like
don't worry we got you but they're
secretly giving away her Secretary of
State position in exchange for
supporting Claire meanwhile Conway grabs
the spotlight by calling out the
president for not being tough on I go so
he gets himself a one-on-one meeting to
go discuss the situation of course there
are both politicians and don't actually
care about the issues so they spend the
whole time just playing phone games he
does take a sketchy call though and
turns out someone votes for Cathy Durant
not for vice-president but for president
which undermines Frank's campaign and
Conway was the one that organized that
so Frank could actually lose the
nomination and Cathy's like I can't
believe you betrayed me after all we've
been together how can I ever trust you
again and Frank like you will get in
line or I will destroy you maybe even
literally murder you but let's hope it
doesn't come to that so she has been
successfully intimidated she supports
Claire for vice president and they've
actually done it husband and wife's
gonna be present and vice president
that's crazy Claire gave an amazing
speech by the way written by famous
novelist
Tom Yates he was working on a book about
president last season but he never got
to finish it so he wants back in and
they decide to make him a speechwriter
which he's very good at and when
Claire's mom dies of cancer because she
helps her OD on morphine Tom Yates is
there to comfort her emotionally and
sexually and in classic Underwood style
Frank's okay with this and they have
totally non Awkward breakfasts together
watch out it's terror time some family
gets kidnapped by I go right here in
Kansas data guy is running the
surveillance program and all the sudden
he has all the government agencies
crawling up in there hopefully they
won't find out that he's really been
using it for election data the
kidnappers are a couple of white
Americans who support Mike oh and they
want America to release their leader who
they have in custody he has a secret
meeting with Claire where she's like
tell them to release the hostages and
we'll let you go and stuff but on the
call he's like no kill the hostages so
that what about as poorly as possible
hammerschmidt has been finding some
actual evidence of Frank lying in his
travel reports so he tracks down Freddie
who used to run the barbecue joint
Frank's give Freddie a job as a
landscaper at the White House but they
had a huge falling-out recently still
Freddie don't talk because Freddie don't
snitch he's better luck with Remy
danton's he's willing to play never have
I ever
hammerschmidt says things he thinks the
president did and Remy drinks to confirm
basically all of it now he meets with
Jackie and Jackie's like you know what I
don't care if people know about us let's
go on the record and take Frank down
this is enough to get hammerschmidt a
job with a real newspaper again and he
tracks down ex-president Walker Walker's
like no Frank was my friend and it's
like no man he stole your presidency
remark is like oh yeah
maybe he did so he talks to so this
article coming out is very bad news for
Frank he'll definitely lose the election
probably be impeached and probably go to
jail
is this the end for Frank Underwood no
way Claire says it's time to scare the
country into submission and Frank agrees
he announces they're not going to
negotiate with terrorists so when they
go to execute the family live on the
internet they let it happen and then
they both look at the camera and say we
make the terror and that's how season
four comes to an end hey it's the man of
recap thanks for watching if you've made
it this far go ahead and subscribe I've
got a lot of awesome recaps I'm excited
to share with you guys also if you
haven't yet subscribed to Netflix house
of cards season five dropping May 30 it
is going to be awesome Netflix if you're
watching feel free to offer me a job as
your official Erie capper
I think that would be pretty awesome
alright I'll catch you guys later bye